= Ye Generic Rich Starter App

== Status: In progress.

Please see https://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/12879 (release 0 = version 1 of the Generic Starter App)

== What's the point?

There's a lot of stuff that damn near every Web 2.0 application has. It's kinda pointless to keep doing it over and over, and increases the barriers to making a cool new app.

This app will let you just write the "cool new" parts and so that the "app" parts are already done.

This is a very full featured yet generic application. It comes with:
* full users & profiles
  * stateful users w/ OpenID support and authorization (via RPXNow)
  * remember me, activation, password reset, email veracification; optional ReCaptcha (set it in UsersController#new)
  * user preferences w/ easy newbie introductions / alerts
  * role-based authorization including full per-record roles for anonymous users
  * users vs profiles separation (so you can have profiles for other things too, like groups, w/ the same code)
  * fancy file upload (attachment_fu + SWFUpload) w/ email-it-in support (just run script/mail_fetcher & check config/mail.yml)
  * custom icon AND gravatar support
  * tagging (and tag classification as nested sets)
  * intelligent profile role levels (reader, commenter, tagger, editor, member, owner, moderator) w/ easy role editing interface
  * comments w/ AJAX, subscriptions, RSS, email notification, and email response (w/ mail fetcher)
  * user-to-user messaging, 'comment wall', or threaded forum views (including 'wall-to-wall' messaging)
  * user-to-user friendships w/ automatic scrape of Facebook friendships
* admin tools:
  * fancy namespaced admin views for managing users, seeing debug info inline, etc (some debug info will be visible to all users if in dev mode)
  * automatic multi-account detection and linking
  * user-spoofing powertool (w/ audit logging)
  * 404 and exception logging (and notification)
  * process name hack to show current request processing in top
* dev & deployment goodies:
  * .gitignore'd keyfiles (config/initializers/*_keys* and config/database.yml) so you don't repo your keys
  * SuperDeploy capistrano recipes package (incl. task to symlink those shared, protected config files in on the server side)
  * all the usual goodies for production use (cache_fu, bundle-fu, ar-extensions, etc)
  * fragment, page, and method caching
  * frozen gems (except where requiring native extensions)
  * at least some API keys that will work for you on localhost (they're mine)
  * integration tests and rdoc-umentation
* other useful stuff:
  * full record-level localization, including AJAX Google Translate, user-entered translations (moderated or not), side-by-side multilingual view, preferences, etc
  * modelized session for easy access & manipulation (derived from the default ActiveRecord session store)
  * basic SEO integration
  * AddThis bookmark/share widget
  * UserVoice feedback widget (as standard link in sidebar)
  * WAI ARIA support (for use w/ screen readers, e.g. visually impaired people)
  * easy automatic JS flasher - just update js_flash_info/_warning/_error
  * userstamping, paranoia, versioning, optimistic locking
* well factored, fully documented, testable, efficient, bug-free, easy to understand, resource-oriented code

Things to be aware of:
* If changing things in-place (e.g. w/ user.foo<< instead of user.foo=), first call foo_will_change!, otherwise versioning (and other stuff) will break.
* You need to get your own API keys. Some of mine will work, but probably only for localhost. Look in config/initializers.
* First admin user must be set via console (e.g. User.first.has_role 'site_admin')
* It depends on *Magick (RMagick/ImageMagick by default), which has nontrivial {install process}(http://rmagick.rubyforge.org/install-faq.html). Change your processor in models/assets.rb if you prefer something else.
* The frozen rails version has been patched with this: https://rails.lighthouseapp.com/projects/8994/tickets/1339-arbase-should-not-be-nuking-its-children-just-because-it-lost-interest
* You may not use this for commercial or closed source purposes without a license. Please email me if you would like one.

== Full externals list

=== Plugins
* aasm
* acts_as_dropdown
* acts_as_paranoid
* acts_as_preferenced
* acts_as_taggable_redux
* acts_as_tree
* acts_as_versioned
* ar-extensions
* browser-prof
* bundle-fu
* cache_fu
* custom-err-msg
* exception_logger
* exception_notification
* limerick_rake
* query_stats
* rails-authorization-plugin
* rails-footnotes
* recaptcha
* restful-authentication
* rows_logger
* squirrel
* super_deploy
* userstamp
* validates_email_veracity_of
* white_list

=== Gems
 - [R] rake 
 - [F] ruby-openid 
 - [F] capistrano 
    - [F] net-ssh >= 2.0.10
    - [F] net-sftp >= 2.0.0
       - [F] net-ssh >= 2.0.9
    - [F] net-scp >= 1.0.0
       - [F] net-ssh >= 1.99.1
    - [F] net-ssh-gateway >= 1.0.0
       - [F] net-ssh >= 1.99.1
    - [F] highline 
 - [F] mperham-memcache-client 
 - [F] rubaidh-google_analytics 
    - [R] actionpack 
    - [R] activesupport 
 - [F] mislav-will_paginate 
 - [F] uuidtools 
 - [F] grosser-rpx_now 
    - [R] activesupport 
 - [I] francois-piston 
    - [F] main >= 2.8.3
       - [I] fattr >= 1.0.3
       - [I] arrayfields >= 4.5.0
    - [F] log4r >= 1.0.5
    - [R] activesupport >= 2.0.0
 - [I] ruby-debug 
    - [F] columnize >= 0.1
    - [I] ruby-debug-base ~> 0.10.3.0
       - [I] linecache >= 0.3
 - [I] SystemTimer 
 - [I] RedCloth 
 - [I] utf8proc 

== Info

Author:: Sai Emrys (saizai)
License:: Creative Commons by-nc-sa - share and modify it freely IFF it stays free, I get credit, and nobody's making money. For commercial use license, please email me.
